Create 2024-03.md (#39)
OBF/newsletter: newsletters/2024-03.md

---
tags: obf
---

_Having trouble viewing this email or looking for a permalink? [View this newsletter in your browser](https://github.com/OBF/newsletter/blob/master/newsletters/2024-03.md)._

_This email was sent to the [bosc-announce](https://groups.google.com/g/bosc-announce) and [open-bio-l](http://mailman.open-bio.org/mailman/listinfo/open-bio-l/) mailing lists._

# OBF Newsletter March 2024

> TL;DR: In this newsletter we provide key dates for BOSC 2024; share the upcoming OBF event fellowship, highlight an upcoming ISCBacademy event, and share upcoming community opportunities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TL;DR: In this newsletter we provide key dates for BOSC 2024, share the upcoming OBF event fellowship application deadline, highlight an upcoming ISCBacademy talk, and share upcoming community opportunities.
```

In longer form: 

## OBF News

### BOSC news

The 25th(!) annual Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC 2024) will take place on July 15/16 as part of ISMB 2024 in Montréal, Canada, and online. As in prior years, there will be a _CollaborationFest_, a collaborative work event (including but not limited to hacking) happening around BOSC, this year right after the event on July 17/18.

> There is still time to submit your abstracts for posters and talks. And there [is even an early poster submission/acceptance route that you can use until March 21](https://www.open-bio.org/2024/02/18/early-poster-acceptance-2024/). With this we want to make it easier for people to support them in their travel planning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is still time to submit your abstracts for posters and talks. And there [is even an early poster submission/acceptance route that you can use until March 21](https://www.open-bio.org/2024/02/18/early-poster-acceptance-2024/). With this we want to make it easier for people to plan their travel to BOSC/ISMB.
```

The full list of key submission/notification dates is: 

* March 21, 2024: [Early Poster Acceptance submission deadline](https://www.open-bio.org/2023/03/09/bosc-early-poster-acceptance/)
* March 29: Early Poster Acceptance notification
* April 19: Regular abstract submission deadline (talks and posters)
* May 13: Talk/poster acceptance notification
* May 20: Late poster submission deadline

The actual conference dates are:

* July 12-16, 2024: ISMB 2024 (Montréal, Canada and online)
* July 15-16, 2024: BOSC 2024 (part of ISMB)
* July 17-18: Post-BOSC CollaborationFest

> 

Reviewer: To keep up with BOSC news, please follow us on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/groups/14344023/), [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/bosc.bsky.social), [Mastodon](https://genomic.social/@BOSC), and [Slack](https://join.slack.com/t/obf-bosc/shared_invite/zt-n5ur1gsj-z2C~69_4lYTFPg5tbWA8Ew)! (We are no longer on Twitter/X; [find out why](https://www.open-bio.org/2023/11/20/leaving-x/).)

Reviewer: (I meant to add that as a new line; not sure if that worked)

Author: no worries, i added it manually!

### OBF Event Fellowships

> Next round: April 1, 2024

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next deadline: April 1, 2024
```

The current application period for the OBF Event Fellowship lasts until April 1, 2024. So there is still some [time to get your application submitted](https://forms.gle/3yLg94G1C9nkZkvq5).

> These fellowships are ideal to support your virtual or in-person BOSC attendance, but can be used to cover registration fees for relevant events related to open source bioinformatics or open science (in-person or virtual), and potentially additional expenses such as travel, lodging, childcare for the duration of the event, small hardware (e.g. a headset or webcam), or high-speed internet. You can read more about [applying for an OBF Event Fellowship](https://www.open-bio.org/event-awards/#fellowships-applications), and [the experiences of past awardees](https://www.open-bio.org/category/travel-fellowship/event-fellowship/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These fellowships are ideal to support your virtual or in-person BOSC attendance, but can also be used to cover registration fees for other relevant events related to open source bioinformatics or open science (in-person or virtual), and potentially additional expenses such as travel, lodging, childcare for the duration of the event, small hardware (e.g. a headset or webcam), or high-speed internet. You can read more about [applying for an OBF Event Fellowship](https://www.open-bio.org/event-awards/#fellowships-applications), and [the experiences of past awardees](https://www.open-bio.org/category/travel-fellowship/event-fellowship/).
```

### ISCBacademy events

The OBF is about to host another _ISCBacademy webinar_: On March 5, 2024, we will host Gemma Turon who is the co-founder and CEO of the _Ersilia Open Source Initiative_. In her talk, Gemma will present on _Ersilia, open source AI/ML for (antimicrobial) drug discovery_. The [details for how to attend are on the OBF website](https://www.open-bio.org/2024/02/08/iscbacademy-gemma-turon/)

> Additionally, on October 3, 2023 we collaborated with the _Bio-Ontologies_ COSI and had Sierra Moxon speak about _"LinkML: an open data modeling framework, grounded with ontologies"_. The [recording of this talk is now on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyNp09WYLzw). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our previous ISCBacademy talk was on October 3, 2023 . We collaborated with the _Bio-Ontologies_ COSI and had Sierra Moxon speak about _"LinkML: an open data modeling framework, grounded with ontologies"_. The [recording of this talk is now on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nyNp09WYLzw). 
```
